Diabetes is a disease that is caused by lack of exercise,poorlifestyle habits and familty inheritance.
Signs and symptoms of diabetes are dehydration, lose of weight, eyesight issues and anger.
Diabetes means that the amount of glucose (sugar) in your blood is too high. That’s why
people sometimes call diabetes “sugar” or “sweet blood.” Your blood always has some
glucose in it because your body needs glucose for energy, but too much of it in the blood isn’t
good for your health.
Diabetes can lead to serious complications and premature death, but people with diabetes
can take steps to control the disease and lower the risk of complications.
There are two main types of diabetes:
 Type 1 diabetes, previously called juvenile diabetes, is usually first diagnosed in children,
teenagers, or young adults. People with type 1 diabetes make no insulin and must take
insulin every day. (Insulin helps the body use glucose from food for energy).
 Type 2 diabetes, previously called adult-onset diabetes, is the most common form of
diabetes. With type 2 diabetes, the body does not make or use insulin well. People with
type 2 often need to take pills or insulin. Type 2 is the most common form of diabetes.
Being overweight and living a sedentary lifestyle increases the chances of developing type
2 How do I know if I have diabetes?
You may have one or more of the warning signs listed on the next page, or you may have no
signs at all. Talk to your health care provider about getting a blood test to check your glucose
levels to know if you have diabetes or pre-diabetes (a condition where blood glucose levels
are higher than normal, but not high enough for a diagnosis of diabetes).diabetes. 
What can I do to control or prevent diabetes?
Managing diabetes requires effort every day to eat healthy foods, be physically active, take
diabetes medicine as prescribed, and test blood glucose levels. You can take steps to prevent
or slow down other health problems diabetes can cause over the years by keeping your blood
glucose, blood pressure, and cholesterol under control. If you have diabetes, work with your
health care provider to create a plan for managing your health. You can do a lot to lower your
chances of getting diabetes. Some tips are:
 Be physically active on a regular basis
 Eat less fat and fewer calories
 Lose weight if you need to
All people with diabetes need to make healthy food choices, stay at a healthy weight, and be
physically active every day. Taking good care of yourself and your diabetes can help you feel
better. It may help you avoid health problems caused by diabetes such as:
 Heart disease and stroke
 Eye problems that can lead to trouble seeing or going blind
 Nerve damage that can cause your hands and feet to feel numb. Some people may even
lose a foot or a leg
 Kidney problems that can cause your kidneys to stop working
 Gum disease and loss of teeth